Cleanup ppv1 (#3661)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Performance_Points/ppv1/en.md

# ppv1

The first performance score (abbreviated as **ppv1**) is an ancient ranking system for players globally across all modes from osu!. It replaced the old system of *ranking by total score* and was abandoned due to the implementation of [ppv2](..).

## History

ppv1 was launched in April 2012 and initially mentioned in players' profiles under the name ``???`` during a test phase. After finally being renamed to **pp** (performance points) on April 17, 2012. This system existed with the previous ranking system (*ranking by total score*) and eventually became the unique system in-place on July 24, 2012 during the release of version [20120722-24](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/posts/1687719 "20120722-24") of the osu! client.

This system was initially updated at regular intervals (usually every 24 hours) until finally being run in real-time on August 16, 2012.

ppv1 was abandoned and replaced by **ppv2** on January 27, 2014.
The reasons behind that change were the criticism of the players:

- Missing opacity of the algorithm
- Promotion of ``Hard`` difficulties with mods
- Low worth of insane difficulties

> It also allowed peppy to seperate the job of maintaining and updating the filing system to and thus ease its workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also allowed peppy to separate the job of maintaining and updating the filing system too and thus ease its workload.
```
